# RNAFoldAssess Tutorial

This tutorial will guide users on how to use RNAFoldAssess. It will cover a brief description of the package's purpose, then run through some examples with data provided in the `./example` directory.

# Installation

If you have not yet installed RNAFoldAssess, please follow these instructions:

```
> git clone git@github.com:yao-laboratory/RNAFoldAssess.git
> cd RNAFoldAssess
> pip isntall -r requirements.txt
> pip install -e .
```

Alternatively, you can download the [RNAFoldAssess code in a .zip file](https://github.com/yao-laboratory/RNAFoldAssess/archive/refs/heads/package-only.zip0) and extract it on your local computer. From the directory in which you extracted it, run the following commands:

```
> cd RNAFoldAssess
> pip install -r requirements.txt
> pip install -e .
```

# Tutorial Scripts

To follow along with this tutorial, you will need to be in the `tutorial_scripts` directory. Assuming you are currently in the project root, run the following commands from the terminal:

```bash
cd tutorial/tutorial_scripts
```

The next few sections will run the scripts in `tutorial/tutorial_scripts` with input data that can be found in `tutorial/processed_data`

## Mode 1 - Make and Evaluate Prediction

Mode 1 is the most comprehensive pipeline mode. In this mode, a model predicts an RNA secondary structure from a given sequence and that prediction is evaluated based on the provided ground truth. For this mode, the RNA data must have ground truth data included. To see this mode in action, run the following from your terminal:

```bash
python mode1_generate_preds_and_evals.py
```

Upon running this, you should see a new CSV called `mode1_output.csv`. Open this to see what mode 1's output looks like.

## Mode 2 - Make Prediction Only

Mode 2 takes RNA data and a model and generates only a prediction for each RNA in the data; that is, there is no evaluation of the prediction. This is useful if you don't yet have ground truth data, like the data in `processed_data/example_data_no_ground_truth.csv`. To see this mode in action, run the following command from your terminal:

```bash
python mode2_generate_preds_only.py
```

See the output from this mode in `mode2_output.csv`.

## Mode 3 - Evaluate Existing Predictions

Mode 3 takes a CSV generated by Mode 2 and performs evaluation on all the secondary structure predictions. To see this mode in action, run the following command from your terminal:

```bash
python mode3_generate_evals_from_preds.py
```

You should see a new file called `mode3_output.csv`, open it to see the output from mode 3.
